<template data-parse>2006-12-17 #jesus #noIndex</template>

# Goetta Omelets, Gold Bond, and Circles of Influence

Like many nights in Northern Kentucky, I spent this past Friday night/Saturday morning at one of my favorite places on earth, The Anchor Grill. If you are unfamiliar, this 24 hour establishment is amazing because as the motto on their menu says, &ldquo;\[They\] may doze, but \[they\] never close,&rdquo; and also they have (the best tasting) goetta omelets. It is always a fresh, renewing experience to sit in The Anchor late into the AM hours, drink pitchers of black coffee, and talk with fellow young men about both the practical and spiritual aspects of life. That is not to mean that spirituality is unpractical, in fact I believe the exact opposite (though it depends on what spirit you're dealing with, but that is a whole other topic). I am simply saying that our conversation covers a broad range of topics and is always encouraging.

This particular Friday at The Anchor I had the privilege of meeting and talking with 5 young men who are currently seniors at my alma mater Dixie Heights High School. I overheard them talking about Jesus, so naturally I went over to their table and grabbed a seat next to the one guy I knew because I wanted to be a part of their conversation. I humbly introduced myself as Daniel Ott, and felt like royalty as they welcomed me because my &ldquo;OTT&rdquo; bottle of Gold Bond is still being passed down in Dixie Heights' Young Life today. We exchanged stories about camp experiences, discussed the nature of fluids coming out of our bodies, then began talking about their current book of study, Revelation. I don't know if there were any theological breakthroughs for any of us in that 30 or so minutes, but the experience in itself has got my mind exploring.

First off, how amazing is it that a thin piece of green plastic containing foot powder can bring together young men who have never before spoken a word to each other. It was as if there was instant trust between all of us on the basis that we had held this container and attended programs through Young Life. If not trust, there was at least some level of influence established on the basis of a common appreciation for a simple manufactured object.

Building off that influence, I begin to wonder how large our areas of influence really are. When I talk about how large they are, I mean both quantitatively and qualitatively. How much impact did sharing life with those guys for a half hour have. Was it temporary? Was it eternal? Will it influence only them, or will my actions and attitudes toward them be reflected to the people they will come in contact with? I like to hope that at the very least these young guys were encouraged as they continue to figure out more about how big both their God and the calling He has put on their lives is; that they might be able to see in me a passion and love for God and His Word, and that they in response would find themselves craving these things.

The next thing I think about is how not only do I (hopefully) encourage them, but how these young men encourage me. I am encouraged simply by their openness to talking about the real stuff of life. It encourages me that through them I get to see God continuing the mighty work he was doing at Dixie. As we discussed the seemingly contradiction of God being Jealous (Exodus 34:14), God being love (1 John 4:8), and love not being jealous (1 Corinthians 13:4), Will said of me something along the lines of &ldquo;I told you he is really smart&rdquo;. These kind words of his encourage me to keep digging in the Word and sharing what Jesus reveals to me more than he will probably ever realize.

Not the last thought I have, but the last I will comment on is the thought of &ldquo;what if?&rdquo; What if this influence wasn't used for the building up and encouraging of the young men. What if Daniel Ott had been a legend (and I use the word legend extremely loosely) that took root, but then grew up only to be choked to death by the thorns of this life (see Matthew 13). What effects would that testimony have on these guys following in a path very similar to mine. Since Jesus has given me areas of influence, am I responsible for the outcomes of what I do with them even in ignorance (Matthew 18:6, Mark 9:42, Luke 17:2)? There was a season when I would not speak so openly and gladly about what I did with the influence I was given. I was more concerned about the idea of doing what satisfied me, not God's plan of me loving the people He wants me to love as His ambassador. I'm sure there are still areas of my life where there are shortcomings in using all of my influence for His glory. What if God wasn't faithful to (continually) pull me out of those false ways of thinking? There are so many what ifs, but I will stop there and sum up what I am learning from this simple experience.

First, God is reaffirming to me how faithful He is. John 10:25-30 reminds me that none of this is coincidence. God is holding all my situations, my whole life, me in the palm of His hands. That is where I am, and no one can take what is His out of His hands. The knowledge that I am not simply off in the distance trying to follow God, but that I belong to God is inexpressibly comforting. He acts, and who can reverse it?

Secondly, God is showing me how to practically live out some verses that have been steeping in my mind for a few months now. I will end with the verses themselves because they are quickly becoming a crucial part of my life. My prayer is that these following words of God can be as encouraging to you in your personal relationships as they have been to me and mine.

> **Colossians 2:2**<br />
> My purpose is that they may be encouraged in heart and united in love, so that they may have the full riches of complete understanding, in order that they may know the mystery of God, namely, Christ

> **Philippians 1:22-26**<br />
> If I am to go on living in the body, this will mean fruitful labor for me. Yet what shall I choose? I do not know! I am torn between the two: I desire to depart and be with Christ, which is better by far; but it is more necessary for you that I remain in the body. Convinced of this, I know that I will remain, and I will continue with all of you for your progress and joy in the faith, so that through my being with you again your joy in Christ Jesus will overflow on account of me.
