<template data-parse>2006-10-15 #jesus #noIndex</template>

# The Living Dead

Zombies are a taboo subject in America today. Perhaps the first thing that comes to mind when zombies are mentioned are movies portraying zombies in a negative light, survival-horror videogames, or mutilated flesh. Zombies generally produce only the most basic of motor functions, all of which are used haphazardly toward the single end goal of eating the flesh of living. A zombie’s body returns to life in a state of decay, it’s mind in a state of stupor. Where did this idea of the resurrected being stupid, thoughtless, decaying cannibals come from?

The one man in history who has been widely accepted as risen from the dead is Jesus Christ. If you’re not familiar, Jesus is the man who impacted human history so profoundly that our calendar is divided into the two periods before and after his birth. Roughly 2,100,000,000 people on earth today worship him as God with the core credential meriting this worship being his death, burial, and resurrection from the dead. It is so crucial that even Protestants and Catholics agree on the importance of Jesus’ resurrection. In 1 Corinthians 15:12-19 Paul says that if Christians believe in Christ’s resurrection, and Christ is not in fact resurrected from the dead, they are to be the most pitied of all men (author’s paraphrase). The resurrection of the dead is a big deal.nnWhen reading the Bible, Jesus’ resurrected body is never like that of the stereotypical zombie. Unlike a decaying zombie’s raised body, Christ’s body was raised imperishable as the first fruits of the resurrected (1 Corinthians 15:20, 42). It is important to consider that Christ was not raised only as a spirit, but had a physical body. Christ’s physical appearance resembled that of before his crucifixion, so much so that his disciples recognized that it was he, and worshipped him as God (Matt 28:9, 17). So shocking was seeing the body of the Lord risen, that the disciples in Luke 24:36 were frightened to see him. To display the true nature of the resurrection, Jesus goes on in Luke 24:37-43 to show them the wounds in his physical body, and then to meet the body’s needs he requests and eats some food.

Comparing the resurrection of zombies and Christ may be silly, but it does stir up some interesting thoughts. One of the promises to a Christ follower is that we will be raised on the last day and will receive resurrection bodies like Jesus’(Romans 6:5, Philippians 3:21, 1 John 3:2). This hope would be no hope at all if we are to be raised decayed, stupid, and inclined towards cannibalism. There is not much to worry about, of the 500+ individuals that encountered Jesus post-resurrection and pre-ascension there is not one report of him devouring human flesh.

One could possibly make a biblical case for the devouring of human flesh with Revelation 3:16 where Jesus says “because you are lukewarm, neither hot nor cold, I am about to spit you out of my mouth”, or in John 6:25-58 when Jesus says “unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man(Jesus) and drink his blood, you have no life in you”. However, Jesus isn’t talking about the literal consumption of his flesh, but rather trusting in His work on the cross for the forgiveness of sin; trusting so much that it is as much a necessity to our daily life as food is to the physical body (Deuteronomy 8:3).

So back to my original question. Why is it that the resurrected are stereotyped as being stupid, thoughtless, decaying cannibals when the only man to actually resurrect modeled nothing of the sort? The comparison between zombies and Jesus is not perfect. Zombies are fictional and raised only to be “the living dead”. On the contrary, Christ has been raised to eternal life, and so will those who eat his flesh.
